doc/microsite/docs/index.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src ="images/logo.png" width="200" /></p>

Would you like to have nice, up-to-date license/copyright headers in your source code files but hate to manage them by hand? Then __Headroom__ is the right tool for you! Now you can define your license header as [Mustache][web:mustache] template, put all the variables (such as author's name, year, etc.) into the [YAML][wiki:yaml] config file and Headroom will take care to add such license headers to all your source code files.

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/4Pfxdss0V4msFjjt2z6mgCZCp.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/4Pfxdss0V4msFjjt2z6mgCZCp)

# Main Features
- __License Header Management__ - allows to add, replace or drop license headers in source code files.
- __Flexible Header Detection__ - you can even replace or drop license headers that weren't generated by Headroom, as they are automatically detected from source code files, not from template files.
- __Fully Customizable__ - would you like to put empty lines before/after header? Or use different style of comments for your headers? No problem, you can change this in configuration.
Headroom, as they are automatically detected from source code files, not from template files.
- __Template Generator__ - generates license header templates for most popular _open source_ licenses. You can use these as-is, customize them or ignore them and use your custom templates.
- __Automatic Initialization__ - using the _Init_ command, _Headroom_ can detect what source code files you have in your project and generate initial configuration file and appropriate template skeletons.

# Adopters
Here is the list of projects using _Headroom_. If you're using _Headroom_ and aren't on the list, feel free to [submit new issue][meta:new-issue] or [pull request][meta:pulls].

- [wire-server](https://github.com/wireapp/wire-server) - Wire back-end services [https://wire.com](https://wire.com)


[meta:new-issue]: https://github.com/vaclavsvejcar/headroom/issues/new
[meta:pulls]: https://github.com/vaclavsvejcar/headroom/pulls
[web:mustache]: https://mustache.github.io
[wiki:yaml]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML

Commit message:

Microsite - update Overview page to match changes in v0.3.0.0

doc/microsite/docs/index.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src ="images/logo.png" width="200" /></p>

Would you like to have nice, up-to-date license/copyright headers in your source code files but hate to manage them manually? Then __Headroom__ is the right tool for you. Define your license header as [Mustache][web:mustache] template, put any template variables into [YAML][wiki:yaml] configuarion file, and you're ready to go!

__Headroom__ also offers much more than just adding, replacing or dropping license headers. It can also update years in copyrights for you, provides specialized support for some source code file types, and much more!

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/4Pfxdss0V4msFjjt2z6mgCZCp.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/4Pfxdss0V4msFjjt2z6mgCZCp)


# Main Features
- __License Header Management__ - Add, replace or drop license headers in your source code files with a single command. What's more, contrary to many similar tools, __Headroom__ allows you to also replace/drop headers that weren't previously generated by __Headroom__, using smart header auto-detection.
- __Powerful Customization__ - Default configuration should cover most use-cases, but if you need to put empty lines before/after generated header, use different comment style of headers, you can customize the configuration to match exactly your needs.
- __Built-in OSS License Headers__ - If you want to use license header for one of the popular OSS licenses, then __Headroom__ can generate them for you - no need to search for them on web.
- __Automatic Initialization for OSS Projects__ - Setting up external tools like __Headroom__ for your project can be boring. Fortunately, __Headroom__ can initialize itself for your project, by generating configuration file and template files.
- __Copyright Year Updater__ - __Headroom__ is good not only for basic license header management, but also for further processing of generated headers. Do you need to update years in your copyrights? No problem!


# Adopters
Here is the list of projects using _Headroom_. If you're using _Headroom_ and aren't on the list, feel free to [submit new issue][meta:new-issue] or [pull request][meta:pulls].

- [wire-server](https://github.com/wireapp/wire-server) - Wire back-end services [https://wire.com](https://wire.com)


[meta:new-issue]: https://github.com/vaclavsvejcar/headroom/issues/new
[meta:pulls]: https://github.com/vaclavsvejcar/headroom/pulls
[web:mustache]: https://mustache.github.io
[wiki:yaml]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML
