doc/microsite/docs/documentation/basic-concepts.md, before:

Before we'll dive deeper into describing features and configuration options, let's introduce some _top level_ overview of how _Headroom_ works and what it does.

## Why Headroom?
It's good to have copyright/license headers at the very top of each source code file, but it's not only cumbersome but also prone to errors to manage them by hand. You add some new source files in rush and forgot to copy the license header into them. Or you just need to update some info in them and hope that _find&replace_ will do the job, and so on. Why to do this by hand, when some software could do that for you? This is why was _Headroom_ created. The only thing you need to do is to set up _Headroom_ for your project and then it will do all the dirty job for you.

## How it works?
Simply said, _Headroom_ takes [Mustache][web:mustache] templates of license headers, fills any variables by values taken from `.headroom.yaml` configuration file, renders them and puts them onto specified position in your source code files. And that's pretty much all. It has some advanced configuration options and another fancy features, but we'll get back to them in later chapters.

Before continuing to next chapters, here's the overview of key parts of _Headroom_. They will be described in more depth in [Configuration][rel:Configuration] chapter.

- __Configuration__ - Main source of configuration is the `.headroom.yaml` file that you put into your project directory. This is the place where _Headroom_ looks for things such as where are source code files stored, where are license template files and what variables should be replaced in templates. It also offers some more advanced options such as to specify before/after which pattern to put the license headers, define blank lines as margin around the license header, etc.

- __Source Code Files__ - Those are the files in which the license headers should be managed by _Headroom_. You can specify multiple different locations and also paths that should be excluded.

- __License Templates__ - _Headroom_ uses [Mustache][web:mustache] templates to define the license headers. These templates are then compiled, variables are filled with actual and such rendered license headers are put into source code files.

- __Variables__ - Changing parts of license headers (such as year, author, e-mail, etc.) can be represented by variables and the actual values are then loaded from either `.headroom.yaml` or command line arguments and filled in during template rendering.


[rel:Configuration]: configuration.md
[web:mustache]: https://mustache.github.io/

Commit message:

Microsite - update 'Basic Concepts' page, spelling corrections

doc/microsite/docs/documentation/basic-concepts.md, after:

Before we'll dive deeper into describing features and configuration options, let's introduce some _top level_ overview of how _Headroom_ works and what it does.

## Why Headroom?
It's good to have copyright/license headers at the very top of each source code file, but it's not only cumbersome but also prone to errors to manage them by hand. You add some new source files in rush and forgot to copy the license header into them. Or you just need to update some info in them and hope that _find&replace_ will do the job, and so on. Why to do this by hand, when some software could do that for you? This is why was _Headroom_ created. The only thing you need to do is to set up _Headroom_ for your project and then it will do all the dirty job for you.

## How it works?
Simply said, _Headroom_ takes [Mustache][web:mustache] templates of license headers, fills any variables by values taken from `.headroom.yaml` configuration file, renders them and puts them onto specified position in your source code files. And that's pretty much all. It has some advanced configuration options and another fancy features, but we'll get back to them in later chapters.

Before continuing to next chapters, here's the overview of key parts of _Headroom_. They will be described in more depth in [Configuration][rel:Configuration] chapter.

- __Configuration__ - Main source of configuration is the `.headroom.yaml` file that you put into your project directory. This is the place where _Headroom_ looks for things such as where are source code files stored, where are license template files and what variables should be replaced in templates. It also offers some more advanced options such as to specify before/after which pattern to put the license headers, define blank lines as margin around the license header, etc.

- __Source Code Files__ - Those are the files in which the license headers should be managed by _Headroom_. You can specify multiple different locations and also paths that should be excluded.

- __License Templates__ - _Headroom_ uses [Mustache][web:mustache] templates to define the license headers. These templates are then compiled, variables are filled with actual and such rendered license headers are put into source code files.

- __Variables__ - Changing parts of license headers (such as year, author, e-mail, etc.) can be represented by variables and the actual values are then loaded from either `.headroom.yaml` or command line arguments and filled in during template rendering.

- __Post-processing Functions__ - These are built-in functions, enabled in _YAML_ configuration, that performs some additional post-processing on rendered license headers, for example to update years in copyright statements.


[rel:Configuration]: configuration.md
[web:mustache]: https://mustache.github.io/
